---
layout: default
title:  "Plan of 2018!!"
date:   2017-12-29 15:58:01 -0600
categories: planning 2018
---

# 2018 Planning

###  ====== EDIT 04/30/2018 ======

The whole March and April was too busy for me to finish all the working stuffs. Unfortunately, this pretty much ruined my previous daily plan and forced me to push restart button. I still think my previous very high level goal of 2018 is solid and reasonable, but I have to make a few adjustments from the experiences of the past four months.

- I'm so sad to admit that CSAPP is too dry for me. It's teaching me amazing knowledge that I don't know before. But it also just doesn't have enough reflections from my daily work. I still definitely should finish it eventually, but I just cannot afford it being on top of my priority list for now.
- I still want to get into distributed system and Go, or cloud infrastructure in general
- Algorithm, data structure, CLRS and leetcode is still a focus
- But I want to add Machine Learning and Data Intensive Application Architecture

#### Adjusted plan

- (__One hour__) work or work related research
  - Ruby/Rails
  - JS/TypeScript/WASM
  - Data Intensive Application
- (__One hour__) Go and distributed systems (little undefined)
  - 6.824??? Too hard??? Or other open course??
  - Other possible go examples, tutorials and projects?
- (__One hour__) Data structure and algorithms
  - CLRS
  - Leetcode: ez + md
  - Go and Ruby implementations
- (__One hour__) ML
  - Couresera ML
  - How to make applications with ML

#### Daily plan

- Two hours every day, could skip Friday and Saturday (10~12pm)
- Rotating from above four plans

### ====== END of EDIT ======

### Knowledge Profile
- Bread and Butter: Ruby/Rails
- New interests: Go and Erlang
- Low level fundamentals: C (possibly C++ for games)

### Topics
- Low level fundamentals
  - Algorithms and Data structures
  - Computer theories
  - C programming

- Erlang and Go
  - Distributed Systems and concurrency
  - Multi-player game architecture
  - Concurrency pattern in Erlang
  - Concurrency pattern in Go

### Daily Plan
- 3 ~ 4 hours per day
- 1 hour CSAPP with exercises / 1 hour CLRS with 1 coding question, swapped daily, let's see, might need to be extended to 1.5 hour
- 1 hour Work extension with Ruby / Rails, either current work items or experimenting new ideas, also try to extend my knowledge on Ruby/Rails in general along the way.
- ~~half hour of Erlang + half hour of Go~~ Go first, Erlang follows, one hour per day.

  __EDIT__: switching contexts from two different language within one hour is too much for me, I'm feeling like confusing syntax a lot and cannot really remember anything. So I decided to stick to one language first and then change once it's completely finished(to my own sense)

### Goals of 2018
- Finish CSAPP and CLRS along with all the exercises with serious quality
- Finish Leetcode ez and md level
- Truly know C and understands it's influences on other languages(Ruby, Go, probably Erlang?)
- Understand distributed systems and Erland and Go's concurrency patterns, also being able to use them to building usable apps. This means truly have these two languages in my tool belt
- Build one distributed system from scratch
- Build a game for real
- Build one app with locus theory(I already got some ideas...)
- Give 10 talks...
- Take notes of all above and put them in my blog
